p8105_hw6_maf2311
================
Mackenzie Frost (maf2311)

December 3, 2022

# Problem 1

2017 Central Park weather data

``` r
weather_df = 
  rnoaa::meteo_pull_monitors(
    c("USW00094728"),
    var = c("PRCP", "TMIN", "TMAX"), 
    date_min = "2017-01-01",
    date_max = "2017-12-31") %>%
  mutate(
    name = recode(id, USW00094728 = "CentralPark_NY"),
    tmin = tmin / 10,
    tmax = tmax / 10) %>%
  select(name, id, everything())
```

    ## Registered S3 method overwritten by 'hoardr':
    ##   method           from
    ##   print.cache_info httr

    ## using cached file: ~/Library/Caches/R/noaa_ghcnd/USW00094728.dly

    ## date created (size, mb): 2022-10-04 10:05:39 (8.408)

    ## file min/max dates: 1869-01-01 / 2022-10-31

The boostrap is helpful when you’d like to perform inference for a
parameter / value / summary that doesn’t have an easy-to-write-down
distribution in the usual repeated sampling framework. We’ll focus on a
simple linear regression with tmax as the response and tmin as the
predictor, and are interested in the distribution of two quantities
estimated from these data:

- r̂ 2
- log(β̂ 0∗β̂ 1)

Use 5000 bootstrap samples and, for each bootstrap sample, produce
estimates of these two quantities. Plot the distribution of your
estimates, and describe these in words. Using the 5000 bootstrap
estimates, identify the 2.5% and 97.5% quantiles to provide a 95%
confidence interval for r̂ 2 and log(β̂ 0∗β̂ 1). Note: broom::glance() is
helpful for extracting r̂ 2 from a fitted regression, and broom::tidy()
(with some additional wrangling) should help in computing log(β̂ 0∗β̂ 1).

# Problem 2

Homicides in 50 large US cities, Washington Post

Create a city_state variable (e.g. “Baltimore, MD”), and a binary
variable indicating whether the homicide is solved. Omit cities Dallas,
TX; Phoenix, AZ; and Kansas City, MO – these don’t report victim race.
Also omit Tulsa, AL – this is a data entry mistake. For this problem,
limit your analysis those for whom victim_race is white or black. Be
sure that victim_age is numeric.

For the city of Baltimore, MD, use the glm function to fit a logistic
regression with resolved vs unresolved as the outcome and victim age,
sex and race as predictors. Save the output of glm as an R object; apply
the broom::tidy to this object; and obtain the estimate and confidence
interval of the adjusted odds ratio for solving homicides comparing male
victims to female victims keeping all other variables fixed.

Now run glm for each of the cities in your dataset, and extract the
adjusted odds ratio (and CI) for solving homicides comparing male
victims to female victims. Do this within a “tidy” pipeline, making use
of purrr::map, list columns, and unnest as necessary to create a
dataframe with estimated ORs and CIs for each city.

Create a plot that shows the estimated ORs and CIs for each city.
Organize cities according to estimated OR, and comment on the plot.

``` r
homicides = read_csv(file = "./data/data-homicides-master/homicide-data.csv") %>%
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, ", ", state)
  )
```

    ## Rows: 52179 Columns: 12
    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (9): uid, victim_last, victim_first, victim_race, victim_age, victim_sex...
    ## dbl (3): reported_date, lat, lon
    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

# Problem 3
